For what should have been, what could have not been and what might yet go either way.

Prologue

--- There are three sides to every story: Your side, my side, and the truth and no one is lying. Memories shared serve each differently. ---

"Why am I here", he grunted to himself. Chuckling lightly, he paused his deliberate motions to take stock of his surroundings. Taking in the view left him breathless, as it always did; moreso than any exertion ever had. The view from this height was something savoured only by animals of flight and those luckless few who succumbed to the dangers of venturing too close to the edge of the narrow path that served as the standard method of traversing the majestic mountains of this area. 

As he turned his gaze downwards towards the untold leagues below him, he reached to the pouch hanging from his belt and covered his large, sweaty hands with the dry herb; his knee resting instinctively within a large crack he knew intimately. A shadow on the edge of his vision caught his eye and his attention quickly turned up to the purple sky. Squinting against the intense light of the triple stars that orbited this world, HIS world, his keen eyes detected the silhouette of a Rockspear Eagle as she prepared to strike at her intended victim. His heightened senses honed in on the ferocious creature as she effortlessly speared her target with her gigantic beak. Gracefully she turned at a seemingly impossible angle and, flapping her enourmous wings, headed parallel to the cliff-face mere inches from his familiar path up the mountain. The Mountainshroud Lizard twitched as the life drained from its emotionless eyes. Even as the crimson blood gushed from the fatal head wound, its body still clambered in a vain effort to escape its untimely end.

Startled by the events that transpired, he closed his eyes and searched his memories to ascertain if he had sensed the Lizard's approach. For it was clear that the creature was stalking him at length before these events transpired. Recalling the deliberate motions of the creature as it tirelessly shadowed his recent course he pondered his latest oversight. "It seems omniscience can make one careless", he thought as a hearty laugh involuntarily rose from his stalwart chest. Realising the irony of his humour given his current predicament, he made a mental note to share the in-joke with his sister when he saw her next.

Grappling the nearest handhold, he continued to propel his tremendous frame up the cliff at a speed any Mountainshroud Lizard would be proud of. Before long the well-travelled path lay before him, only a few feet above his head. His ruffled blond hair glistening with sweat now stung his eyes as, for the second time that radiant afternoon, he found himself caught uncharacteristically unaware. 

His focus drawn to the beautiful brunette standing just above his hands, he stared innocently at the first person that had crossed his path in days. "Dear Goddess" he swore, only a moment before her shrill scream filled the heavy summer air. His focus drawn to this stunning creature poised majestically at the path's edge, he smiled innocently as her athletic legs twisted her lithe body away from his invasion. Pausing to fill his lungs with the resources necessary to explain his latest foolishness, her agile frame turned impossibly fast as she delivered a swift kick to his abdomen.

A faint smile crossed his lips as he instantly lost his grip on the rocky outcropping that moments before had been a path to salvation. Closing his eyes the purple sky filled his mind as he tumbled backwards. "My name is Irkuin", he shouted as the boundless expanse below reached up to claim the latest imbecile to challenge its nothingness. He heard her whisper faintly, "My name is Eimear" before the rushing onslaught of air drowned out all sounds save his own terrified scream. Upon opening his eyes once more, the jagged cliffs waved goodbye to their latest tourist, and the fluorescent indigo of the Giant Bluewood forests became visible. Little more than droplets on the landscape at first, they quickly became unmistakable as the lofty branches rose up to greet his tumultuous descent.

The last memory of his fading consciousness was that of the largest Rockspear Eagle he had ever seen, hurtling towards his already broken body immediately before his abrupt halt. The cause of this rapid deceleration, a twisted branch the size of his calf protruding from his sternum. Before finally passing out in agony, he caught sight of the Eagle triumphantly transforming into the silhouette of his would-be assassin, Eimear.

Chapter 1
--- Memory is a way of holding on to who you are... whether you want to or not. ---

"Who am I?" As Irkuin awoke with a start, to a throbbing headache, the only memory of a dream that even now was slipping from his conscious mind was a single thought, "Who am I?" His senses of the waking world returning, he felt different though could not comprehend why he felt this way. Yet he instinctively knew that something was wrong. His hand reached to his aching head and grasped the cold damp rag that clung to his forehead. A layer of sweat hung on the thin rag, made from the cottonreeds of the local villages of the Litheen people.

A tremendous jolt struck his body as a sudden memory came surging to his conscious mind, "Eimear!" he hoarsely yelled. The reflex unbidden and strangely disturbing, he coughed loudly as his dry mouth screamed for water. Yet thoughts of water quickly fled his weary mind as he relived his fall from the top of the highest peak in this region. Strangely, though he could remember his favoured route up the cliff face - a trip he had taken countless times - he could not recollect the simplest of events from his childhood. Paniced, he desperately struggled to find the first memory he could recall yet as he tried to do so the same scene played before his eyes. His granduesque plummet through the purple skyline and his sudden crash into the ocean of Bluewood below. 

Before he could examine this curious enigma any further, the door of his room opened. Startled as he realised he did not recognise this place, his first thought was to examine his surroundings and yet even this action was interrupted by the feeling that somehow this concept was foreign to him. Looking to the doorway expectantly, a curious scent of Firelilys hung in the stale air of his lodgings. Held transfixed in the doorway was a beautiful and proud Litheen woman. "Irkuin! You're awake!", Eimear said as she rushed to his bedside. Reaching for the rag on his forehead, she delicately placed it in the pot of water nearby and tenderly dabbled his forehead. "And your fever is broken. My Goddess! I thought we had lost you numerous times!"

"I am so sorry for my treatment of you when first we met. You caught me completely unawares, a state no Litheen warrior is accustomed to. I fear my reflexes took over and I..." whatever she was about to say drifted into the lingering silence as she followed his eyes as they urgently searched his surroundings. 

"You are in the healer's den of the Palace, my father insisted when I brought you to him and told him the story of our... first encounter", guilt gripped her once more, as she turned her powerful gaze away from his probing eyes.

Irkuin coughed abruptly, as much to fill the silence as to satisfy his aching throat. Deftly Eimear handed him a nearby container of water and began pacing around his bed. As he began draining the container quickly she stopped suddenly as if to speak causing him to pause in anticipation.

"What were you doing there anyway..? Are you ok? The healer said you should make a full recovery but that your head was struck sharply and there may be some short-term 'complications'. But nevermind, I need to tell you something; something I've never told anyone".

As she noticed his fascination with the mug her temper flared, she grabbed it from his hand and flung it across the room. "Are you even listening to me?"

Irkuin spoke gently, but not without a hint of sarcasm, "Milady, you seemed content to dwell in your own thoughts as much as to speak to me. I merely sought to give you sufficient time to do so. That beautiful container provided a fascinating distraction".

Eimear yelled, "It...it was my brother's!" before running through the open door and slamming it shut in what seemed a single motion.

								*****

As Eimear felt the large Bluewood door slam behind her warding her escape, her anger immediately quelled and she hesitated for a moment, her tensed hand still grasping the rustic handle. Feeling foolish, she dared not return to the scene of her crime and instead gathered her wits and sought out the healer. Turning right and heading down the long picturesque hallway she noted each portrait and bowed her head in reverence as her mother had taught her so long ago. As she reached the most recent portraits her gait slowed until she arrived at her immediate families'. A tear threatened to escape her eyes and cascade down her beautiful face. Shaking her head, she couldn't help but recall the day of its creation. The day she destroyed her family. The day her innocence was lost. The day her brother, Tared, fled their overprotective parents. The day she was left alone.

A creaking floorboard distracted her from her self-pity and drew her attention to the approach of someone behind. No doubt one of her parent's lackeys coming to check up on her movements. Wiping her eyes she turned to greet the oncoming serpent with just the right amount of hostility and patience that only a Princess could bring to bare. Surprised as she found only an empty corridor, she delayed in her procrastination for only a moment more before reluctantly resuming her course and setting off for the waiting healer to set in motion her plan. A plan to restore her family and reclaim her innocence; to seek out a lost brother so that she might never be alone again.

								*****

Irkuin sat up in his bed, noting the blatant extravagance in this healers quarters. Smirking he quickly surmised that this was no ordinary healer's quarters. A healer would live in a hut, a famous healer might live in a small home with some minor trinkets of thanks from those affected by the success of the art; but this, this was a cesspool of exorbitance with barely a hint of the humility that healers were reknowned to possess. "Still... beggars can't be givers", he reminisced. Impatience siezing him, Irkuin threw the bedlinen off his broad form and leapt from the bed, instantly regretting the action as he legs gave ground to pain and he stumbled backwards. With a sigh he braced himself and clambered to his feet, muttering "Ignorance goes before a fall".

As he regained a surefooting, on what he could only surmise must be a spinning ball of ungainly speed, Irkuin took to surveying the room once more. Seeing little of consequence, his eye was abruptly drawn to a portrait of what could only be the healer who occupied these chambers and meaning quickly took form. "Blessed Royalty, I should have known; recognised the air of self-importance." laughter giving way to exhaustion, he stumbled back to the bed and resumed his agony from a horizontal position.

								*****

Rounding the last corner at great speed, Eimear struck the Grand Spirary headlong, sending both flying to the floor. "Now Princess, what would your mother say about such foolishness!" Fear in her eye betrayed her feelings even as the healer jumped to her feet and chuckled at her latest prank. "I'm informed your friend has at last rejoined the land of hte living! I must go to him, at once. The blow he received would not have wounded a Litheen so badly and a HUMAN wouldn't have survived the blow, as for a DWARF and their kin... well, they have little stomach for mountains. We must investigate his origins, lest the Inquisitor see fit to label him a heratic and smite him for his 'crimes'."













To do:
Match continuity of Healer's den and Healer's quarters and where Eimear is going.
Introduce Mia briefly
Introduce the healer as well as at least one of the heroes (ideally a cleric type hero)
Introduce the crystals
Hint at magic
Introduce the Litheen shape-changing abilities
Set-up a "contextual memory" angle
Introduce the Royal court
Set-up the "quest" from the Matriarch
Introduce Eimear's plan
A brief background on why Tared left
Ultimogeniture: last borne child is the heir to the throne. Initially it was Eimear's younger brother Tared who was to be crowned king and she was free to lead a normal life (as normal a life as a princess can take) but since he fled, she was left with the role of being Queen. Heiress presumptive.

I don't thrive on conflict, I've merely learned to survive it. Perhaps a little too well... I can't take sides anymore, not even my own. Yet Life is conflict, why should I be any different. Nature takes no sides, the one who wins is the one who is best equipped to deal with the conflict. Sentient beings are similar but less crude. They bring conflict to the micro cosmos as well as the macro. Tiny things bringing their tiny personal perspective to something that is so very rarely within their ability to truly grasp. Even a petty squabble has multiple dimensions that are never all visible to the individual. The fact that the other side can perceive another point of view, their point of view, gives it substance. Perception of their reality, is far more important than whatever the actual reality may be. Not to the universe, of course, like everything else it continues with its own reality, regardless of yours. But consider for a moment what would happen if you could force the universe to consider your point of view for a time. What limitless universes you would create. What possibilities you would allow. The unimaginable chaos you would create and still insane order you would unleash. Every side of every coin, even its edge in its infinite complexity would be catered to. I wonder if any one of the endless spectrum would be better than the other or if the fluidity of uncertainty would bring greater peace. Perhaps even the only peace.




Chapter 1
Introduction to the elves
Slight introduction of the crystals

Be patient toward all that is unsolved in your heart and try to love the questions themselves. Do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. When the real heart of the matter is to live everything. Especially the questions”

Elven history, rumours of recent wars, Eimear's sister's disappearance, Irkuin's recovery and conversation with his "sister". 

Chapter 2
"Where am I going?"

Eimear travels with Irkuin to meet the dwarves regarding her missing sister.

Chapter 3
Irkuin and Eimear meet three adventurers in the wild, who offer to escort them to the border. 

Chapter 4
The group meet a cleric on their travels and are attacked by a band of humans. We are introduced to elements of the war and the limits of Eimear's abilities. Irkuin proves lacklustre at swordplay. The adventurers save the day.

Chapter 5
Highborne and Lowborne races.
Elves, dwarves and humans are the highborne races. Lowborne races can be hobbits, halflings and orcs or *literal* "children of the forest" (young children who live in the forest), half-races (mixed elves/dwarves, human/dwarves, human/elves) and wild men (humans who have gone mad from being seperated from the collective and have grown feral and violent) respectively.
should be an older race than the 3 highborne, perhaps even two. This/these races should be remnants of the original humanoids that lived on the planet before the elves, dwarves and humans came.

We discover more about the adventurers who are a group of lowborne. A hobbit warrior, halfling mage, and an orc paladin. They meet a half-elf cleric who possesses memories of the humans and elves. He has unusual abilities and is a little bit mad.

Chapter 6
The group reach the border and the cleric departs for human lands, to join the war effort - or rather to heal both sides.
Dwarven patrols discover the group and offer to escort them to the dwarven capital. They bring them to a train system that uses a vacuum tunnel to travel great distances really quickly.

We learn a little about dwarven technology and their culture.

Chapter 7
More dwarven culture, race's history and news of Eimear's sister.
Government leases 20% of each Golem army from each of the families. Families that complete campaign objectives are awarded additional Golems, families that do not, lose some. The greater the total army size of each familiy the more money it receives and the greater it's prestige and power within the council becomes. Families can be created or destroyed in record time as even low-level families must contribute to their submitted objectives.

Chapter 8
Meeting with the Dwarven government. Explanation of Golem technology and it's ancilliary technologies. News from the Elven city by flying messenger (an elf transformed into a bird). Rumour's of Eimear's sister being sighted at the border/crossing-point into Human territory.

Chapter 9
Dwarven Golem Technology, it's role within the Dwarven Feudal regime. Spherical balls, impervious to damage, able to roll around on it's own. Transforms into a humanoid form for more complex tasks or combat. Can be fired like canonballs when used offensively. Most devastating infantry power in the known world. Most versatile ground force. Capable of naval engagements also. Complex tunnel systems for their movement. They are capable of digging tunnels to any specific height. Uses nano-bots to create tools, naturally glow in the dark, possess some modicum of intelligence, self-awareness and sentience. By-product of a forgotten age. Ability to develop golems is long lost, but dwarven expeditions to find cache's of golems are still on-going. Many feudal Lords acquired their powerbase by laying rights to a particularly large force of Golems. They maintain the backbone of the Dwarven military, production and culture.

Chapter 10
Secret research into the creation of golems. Dwarves consider it taboo, it is an ancient forgotten technology due to the power it grants. Endless golems could only lead to unending civil war. Civilian casualities would be astronomical while military casualities would be non-existent.
Touch on dwarven sedentry, end of the Dwarven golden age, decline in their power. Dwarves still maintain the greatest organised army and navy force. Elves fight dirty, in guerilla warfare and superb ambushes due to superior scouting information.

Chapter 11
Negotiations between Eimear and the Dwarven government about going to war against the humans. A tenuous pact exists between Dwarves and the Elves, only in so much as solid borders. The human borders fluctuate regularly, so the dwarves have begun constructing a massive wall. It is incomplete, as a large valley still offers unsecured access.

Chapter 12
Those who speak don't know, those who know don't speak.

Chapter 13
Leaving the dwarven capital, Eimear offers her guards for Irkuin's protection as he goes to the frontlines for the war with the humans. We learn about the dwarven navy, ship manufacturing and the dwarven feudal lord system.

Chapter 14
Irkuin and Eimear are trapped across enemy lines and are surrounded. The humans greet Irkuin as an old friend and offer to bring him to the Queen. They bring Eimear too, as they say someone else is waiting to meet her (her sister).

Chapter 15
Meeting the queen and Eimear's sister, we discover greater insight into the humans abilities. Matriarchs of the tribe would save memory and create new genes which would then pass on their racial memory to the next generation. Memory could be transmitted through touch, but the Matriarch functioned as a server for all memories. Wirelessly backing-up any new experiences. Their orb allowed all members of the race to wirelessly transmit all memories to the Matriarch.

Chapter 16
The queen explains how their society has been scarred by the loss of their orb. They are a dying race, mutilated and enraged. It is all she can do to calm her people, to keep them from killing one another.





Book 2: The Covenant of Serenity.
Original heroes from the first book are deposed. Feeling depressed for not being able to conquer their enemy or negotiate the peace at the end of the first book, but instead being rendered superfluous due to Irkuin's involvement. We watch their experiences in this new world where the Tarma'dens and elves live together resulting in a new power sharing structure which throws off the Dwarf race. While trying to maintain diplomatic ties they turn to Irkuin who is still a hero to all their people having averted a world war and creating the peace by advising the Tarma'dens and elves to live together and share an orb. While being honoured Irkuin is asked if there is anything he needs. He requests they work harder to unite all their peoples in peace but he is also having visions of his home, an island to the south of the main continent. 

He leads an exploration team there, which sets sail from the Tarma'den's city to explore. They discover the other orb which has been returned to what appears to be its original home. Having learned to survive for months without their orbs by forming a unity of the races. The telepathic energy of the Tarma'den race, focused could be used as a power source for the Dwarven cities and machinery. The Elves could then use the Dwarf power sources to aid their symbiotic processes with nature. The task of powering the Dwarven cities forced the Tarma'dens to unite their minds in a single task and thus create a unity of minds that could not exist otherwise.

By working together they are able to survive without their orbs and agree to move them to their original location. They return the Orbs to the island by building huge ships and spending months moving the first Orb from the Elven city to the south, to a Dwarf city on the coast and from the main Dwarven cities to the east to meet up. 


-------------

Creation of new super city like Gurren Lagann
Beginning of second war with "anti-?"



Book 3: The Greenhorne Cometh.
Indeed, we would be lying if we tried to convince it there weren't others who could intervene. In fact, the others are more qualified, better positioned, superbly learned and exquisitely prevented from becoming involved. We do find it amusing to watch it struggle against the tide. It's nature compels it to try, even in the face of its own limitations. A humourous flaw - if nothing else, this should prove entertaining.

We never specified any rules to its purpose, only a few guidelines. Be nurturing but not smotheringly so. Posses a tempered wisdom, seconded only to ourselves.





