
The Path of 
Least Resistance
Book One of the
Quantum Conjecture
Triology 






by
Ciarán Maher




















For what could have been, 

For what couldn't have been, 

For what could have not been,
For what couldn't have not been,
And for what might yet be in a state of quantum superposition.

Prologue

--- There are three sides to every story: Your side, my side, and the truth and no one is lying. Memories shared serve each differently. ---

Why am I here?
Chuckling lightly, the man paused his deliberate motions to take stock of his surroundings. Taking in the view left him breathless, as it always did; moreso than any exertion ever had. The view from this height was something savoured only by animals of flight and those luckless few who succumbed to the dangers of venturing too close to the edge of the narrow path.

As he turned his gaze downwards towards the untold leagues below him, he reached to the pouch hanging from his belt and covered his large, sweaty hands with the dry herb; his knee resting instinctively within a large crack he knew intimately. A shadow on the edge of his vision 
caught his eye and his attention quickly turned up to the purple sky. Squinting against the intense light of the triple stars that orbited this world, HIS world, his keen eyes detected the silhouette of a Rockspear Eagle as she prepared to strike at her intended victim. His heightened senses honed in on the ferocious creature as she effortlessly speared her target with her gigantic beak. Gracefully she turned at a seemingly impossible angle and, flapping her enourmous wings, headed parallel to the cliff-face mere inches from his familiar path up the mountain. The Mountainshroud Lizard twitched as the life drained from its emotionless eyes. Even as the crimson blood gushed from the fatal 
head wound, its body still clambered in a vain effort to escape its untimely end.

Startled by the events that transpired, he closed his eyes and searched his awareness, pondering if he had sensed the Lizard's approach. For it was clear that the creature was stalking him at length before these events transpired. Recalling the deliberate motions of the creature as it tirelessly shadowed his recent course he considered his latest oversight. 

It seems omniscience can make one careless.

A hearty laugh involuntarily rose from his stalwart chest. Realising the irony of his humour given his current predicament, he made a mental note to share the in-joke with his sister when he saw her next.

Grappling the nearest handhold, he continued to propel his tremendous frame up the cliff at a speed any Mountainshroud Lizard would be proud of. Before long the well-travelled path lay before him, only a few feet above his head. His matted, black hair glistening with sweat now stung his eyes as, for the second time that radiant afternoon, he found himself caught uncharacteristically unaware. 

His focus drawn to the striking brunette standing just above his hands, he stared innocently at the first person that had crossed his path in days. 

“Dear Goddess!” he swore, only a moment before her shrill scream filled the heavy summer air. His focus drawn to this stunning creature poised majestically at the path's edge, he smiled innocently as her athletic legs twisted her lithe body away from his invasion. Pausing to fill his lungs with the resources necessary to explain his latest foolishness, her agile frame turned impossibly fast as she delivered a swift kick to his abdomen.



A faint smile crossed his lips as he instantly lost his grip on the rocky outcropping that moments before had been a path to salvation. Closing his eyes the purple sky filled his mind as he tumbled backwards. 

"My name is Irkuin" he shouted as the boundless expanse below reached up to claim the latest imbecile to challenge its nothingness. 
He heard her whisper faintly, "My name is Eimear" before the rushing onslaught of air drowned out all sounds save his own terrified scream. Upon opening his eyes once more, the jagged cliffs waved goodbye to their latest tourist, and the fluorescent indigo of the Giant Bluewood forests became visible. Little more than droplets on the landscape at first, they quickly became unmistakable as the lofty branches rose up to greet his tumultuous descent.

The last memory of his fading consciousness was that of the largest Rockspear Eagle he had ever seen, hurtling towards his already broken body immediately before his abrupt halt. The cause of this rapid deceleration, a twisted branch the size of his calf protruding from his chest. Before finally passing out in agony, he caught sight of the Eagle triumphantly transforming into the silhouette of his would-be assassin, Eimear.