It's funny, or rather, in the way that it isn't; it's not funny. You'd think with all the reasons I suffer, someone would ask - why can't I just sleep?

 

I've heard the usual gently-whispered questioning accusations, from my mother, from my boss, from women... Maybe if you didn't play so many computer games you wouldn't have so much trouble sleeping, if you didn't drink so much, or exercised more, or had better sleeping posture, or... I don't know, brought a hammer to bed and hit myself with it until it took! None of the above works.

 

They don't know of the nightmares that come when I close my eyes. Oh not the nightmares that used to come when I was a boy. The ghosts that filled my aunt's swimming pool and terrorised me for days in the summer of 1994. For 17 days I couldn't sleep for more than 2 hours before the same recurring nightmare returned. In the end it was a colourful solution that saved my sanity. If ghosts should plague me, then ghostbusters would be my saviours. Afterall, who yah gonna call? So, before laying my head down I imagined the ghostbusters guarding my bed, with their trusty lasers to ward off any who would seek to harm me.

Over the years the nightmares changed. In 1998 it was the Borg from Star Trek First Contact, relentlessly assaulting my rest. Not long after, the Dalek's from Doctor Who, then both at once. It seemed villians were everywhere and my imagination plucked them vicariously and dropped them mercilessly in my thoughts, always right before bedtime.

As I grew older and became a man, I found new ways to torture myself. Bullies, whom should have been trivial for me, as anyone who has ever seen my desperate, yet indefensible fighting style might attest to - wrought dreams of utmost cruelty. Not of reliving torture, but of prolonging suffering by fighting back as I once had. Only to see the splintered body of an equally helpless boy splayed across the floor. My fury to be my greatest terror.

 

And then college came and two friends became the heroes of that tale. Not in my dreams or with lasers, but with words and in my life when I dared to let them in. Further, it was there I was introduced to lucid dreaming, a project I relished. To control my dreams as easily as I controlled my life - more EASILY!? - sign me up! Though there I was cheated too. Controlling a dream is only possible if you know you are dreaming, tools can be found all around us though; a gesture, a motion or an action repeated often enough can leave the dreamer certain of the dream. Even if it is only a dim awareness, it is enough to build upon given time and effort.

 

While progress may always progress, it is often a gruesome process... and so, a free man, a once working and successful man, I am burdened still. Nightmares of my own creation - single at 29 with three sisters with children. My greatest fear, never again knowing love or finding it too late to have my own family. Living from day to day upon my families' grace. Longing to write yet never finishing a thought.

 

Even now I fear my psyche may be a giant house of cards waiting to collapse or burn, or both. Logic tells me I still have hope as long as I live. I live, therefore there is hope - when it ends it will not do so by my hand for that is to invite hopelessness and only then can hope be truly lost.

 

So what is the answer then? Why can't I sleep. The crux of the matter is fear, though the form and the function has changed the message is the same, fear rules my mind as I close my eyes and accept oblivion. And yet, why shouldn't it? How do you know you are not terrified while you sleep, but simply don't remember or fail to even register it? Why is it we fear, instinctively fear; the dark? What greater darkness is there than closing your eyes and mind to all?
Why can't I sleep?

 

I am Ciarán and I am a neurotic (part-time) insomniac with regular bouts of sleep deprivation and I ask;
why can YOU sleep?

