Overview
Alien race create all 3 races in an experiment to test their next evolutionary steps. They create a planet, set up the 3 races different evolutionary paths and set-up a space station to observe. The 3 races are actually the re-engineered bodies and souls of the original alien race. A temporal device is installed into the planet to speed up their evolutionary journey.

Two volunteers are placed in orbit, on the space station to observe the experiments progression.
3 orbs are in the possession of each of the races at the start of the story. One is stolen from the Tarma'den, which causes them to go to war with the other races for their orb. The orbs are discovered to be parts of Joe's inner workings. The first orb is stolen by parts of his maintenance robots in order to replace his functionality.

Concepts
Unified Theory of Politics for the final city

Characters
"Time Lord Character" - Aliased "Joe"
Joe is an AI.
Joe contains all the memories of his entire life as well as the lives of every person he has ever been and every person he will ever be. He can examine each of these moments in time completely and distinctly and exists in all moments of his existence. He has perfect recall and the ability to step into a previous moment and alter it subtly. He has amnesia and cannot remember the fact that he has this power. Thus preventing him from accessing his abilties. This changes in the end of book 1. Joe regains this ability and resolves the conflict between the 3 races. 

Joe is "installed" on the planet to observe the temporal device, by its creator. The same creator invented Joe to supervise the device and its usage. 

Nurturing
Apathetic
Honest but not brutally so
Wise and ignorant of the fact
Passionate but only about subjects he is confident in
Slow to anger but unforgiving when pushed far enough

Joe quite often mixes up conventional wisdom as known to the author and other characters, often creating unique variations of existing wisdom. 
Joe turns out to be a spaceship which was installed into the planet. Or rather, the planet was constructed around him. He possess a temporal device capable of manipulating time. 

Mia/Karen/Tara/Carol
Twin AI to Joe. 
She serves as the maintenance and planet control AI. She governs the laws of the planet as well as its natural functions. She steals back the orbs as a means to restore full power to Joe and end his amnesia state. She is destroyed at the end of the 2nd book as the planet is destroyed.

While Joe appears to suffer from amnesia, he experiences flash-backs/dreams of Mia/Karen/Tara/Karol in his life. Believing her to be his sister, he often changes her name from Mia, to Karen, to Tara to Carol

Features
Bio-Technology
Bio-computers 
Time-Travel
Omniscience
Faster than light travel

All powerful alien race
Less powerful alien race


Races
3 central races
Elven Race
Nature
This part of the original society wished to focus on their development of their attunement with nature and the powerful forces it envelops.
Using their orb to better manipulate and commune with nature. Their species possess shape-changing abilities, allowing them to shapeshift into different animal forms. The species possesses a Monarchy. The purest of blood, this family heritage allows them greater number of shapeshifting forms. 

Dwarf Race
Science
This part of the original society wished to focus on their development of their technology. 
Using their orb to power their society, using wireless energy their main city powers the suburb towns and villages. The Dwarf race have advanced technology, by comparison to the other three races they are light-years ahead. Their technology has the appearance of steam-punk with bio-mechanical features also predominant. They have the ability to create simplistic "golems" which are in fact bio-mechanical androids.

Their golem technology is found to be parts of the robots which were a part of Joe's maintenance twin AI. 

Tarma'den Race
Self
This part of the original society wished to focus on their development of their people as a whole.
The hive mind possess a hive mind mentality. Every aspect of their lives is committed to the global knowledge and accessible by all. They posses a Truest democratic society possible. Every member of the society receives the most perfect form of eduction in the sense that they receive all recorded knowledged as it is discovered. This knowledge is shared with every member of society. As every member of society experiences every other member's experiences for themselves, all experience is shared. When all experiences and all education is shared, the result is everyone thinks the same way. There is complete uniformity within the nation. They assign a you woman to speak to the heroes and later to Joe, as their race normally does not communicate through verbal communication but through telepathy.  As it happens, as every member is uniquely educated and obtaining all information known to the species, their decisions most often agree completely.

Additional Races
Alien Observer Race

Time Lord Race of which only Joe is known to exist

Joe's creator race

Significant events
Joe relives his wedding with his wife after he realises he can simultaneously exist in every moment of his existence. He demonstrates his ability to alter the past by reliving the same events and changing them subtly. He demonstrates his power and their limits by reliving his wedding night with his new wife. He remembers they had a fight and he exists within the same moment before the fight, altering it slightly to yield the greatest effect but when he (accidentally) thinks about the argument he inadvertently remembers how his current actions and experimentation with his power caused him to grow too cocky and offend his wife causing an argument where none might never have been. When attempting to resolve this issue he ends up causing things to get worse/repeat indefinitely until he gives up exhausted and exasperated. Thus cementing the idea that while the majority of time is constantly fluid, there are critical moments which are destined to happen regardless of his actions.

Insignificant events
Wedding between Joe and his love interest. This event becomes more significant when Joe uses his power to re-exam the moment tentatively.

Time line

Book 1: The Path of Least Resistance
We are introduced to Joe. An important ancilliary character. Joe intersects with the story at key points, and progressing the story while not being a central part of it. His wedding is an insignificant event which involves all of the main characters and is used to explain important elements of the nature of Joe's abilities.

See character details for more information.

3 Races are introduced.3 crystals are being used, one by each of the races for fundamental purposes. When 1 orb is stolen from the hive mind race, they go to war with the other races seeking a new orb. 

It is discovered that the Hive mind cannot exist safely without an orb. 
Joe intervenes to resolve the conflict, calming all races brokering a treaty between the Elven Race and the Hive Mind to agree to share the orb until a long-term solution can be found.

Book 2: The Covenant of Serenity.
Original heroes from the first book are deposed. Feeling depressed for not being able to negotiate the peace at the end of the first book, but instead being rendered superfluous due to Joe's involvement. We watch their experiences in this new world where the Tarma'dens and elves live together resulting in a new power sharing structure which throws off the Dwarf race. While trying to maintain diplomatic ties they turn to Joe who is still a hero to all their people having averted a world war and creating the peace by advising the Tarma'dens and elves to live together and share an orb. While being honoured Joe is asked if there is anything he needs. He requests they work harder to unite all their peoples in peace but he is also having visions of his home, an island to the south of the main continent. 

He leads an exploration team there, which sets sail from the Tarma'den's city to explore. They discover the other orb which has been returned to what appears to be its original home. Having learned to survive for months without their orbs by forming a unity of the races. The telepathic energy of the Tarma'den race, focused could be used as a power source for the Dwarven cities and machinery. The Elves could then use the Dwarf power sources to aid their symbiotic processes with nature. The task of powering the Dwarven cities forced the Tarma'dens to unite their minds in a single task and thus create a unity of minds that could not exist otherwise.

By working together they are able to survive without their orbs and agree to move them to their original location. They return the Orbs to the island by building huge ships and spending months moving the first Orb from the Elven city to the south, to a Dwarf city on the coast and from the main Dwarven cities to the east to meet up. 

A race of humans developed incredibly sophisticated AI which they trusted to guide their civilisation. They explored their whole galaxy and could not find any other races. Bored and alone, they decided to play a game. The AI consortium created a new race of AIs which they used to play their game. Seeding genetic material across 100's of worlds, they created three unique strains on each world and proposed that they would allow the planets to mature for millions of years. Allowing life to evolve and civilisations and societies to develop. Then, they proposed that each race might do battle in a contest to decide the greatest races. 

Book 3: The Greenhorne Cometh.
Few other races have evolved and progressed as quickly as the races on Joe's planet. It is learned that this was because Joe ran the calculations for determining how best to nuture his planets' people and determined that the greatest move was to allow them to develop naturally and without his intervention. This would result in, he projected, the races discovering the orbs and them accelerating their development. 

When other races arrive to their planet, having enslaved their AI long ago, war of course begins anew. 


Indeed, we would be lying if we tried to convince it there weren't others who could intervene. In fact, the others are more qualified, better positioned, superbly learned and exquisitely prevented from becoming involved. We do find it amusing to watch it struggle against the tide. It's nature compels it to try, even in the face of its own limitations. A humourous flaw - if nothing else, this should prove entertaining.

We never specified any rules to its purpose, only a few guidelines. Be nurturing but not smotheringly so. Posses a tempered wisdom, seconded only to ourselves.




There are three sides to every story: Your side, my side, and the truth. And no one is lying. Memories shared serve each differently.